Kestrel diagnostics doc (#23319)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/fundamentals/servers/kestrel/diagnostics.md

---
title: Logging and diagnostics in Kestrel
author: shirhatti
description: Learn how to gather diagnostics from Kestrel.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-6.0'
ms.author: soshir
ms.date: 07/01/2021
uid: kestrel/diagnostics
---

# Diagnostics in Kestrel

By [Sourabh Shirhatti](https://twitter.com/sshirhatti)

This article provides guidance for gathering diagnostics from Kestrel to help troubleshoot issues. Topics covered include:

> * **Logging** - Structured logs written to [.NET Core logging](xref:fundamentals/logging/index). <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.ILogger> is used by app frameworks to write logs, and by users for their own logging in an app.
> * **Metrics** - Representation of data measures over intervals of time, for example, requests per second. Metrics are emitted using `EventCounter` and can be observed using [dotnet-counters](/dotnet/core/diagnostics/dotnet-counters) command line tool or with [Application Insights](/azure/azure-monitor/app/eventcounters).
> * **DiagnosticSource** - DiagnosticsSource is a mechanism for production-time logging for rich data payloads for consumption within the process. Unlike logging, which assumes data will leave the process and expects serializable data, DiagnosticSource works well with complex data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Logging**: Structured logs written to [.NET Core logging](xref:fundamentals/logging/index). <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.ILogger> is used by app frameworks to write logs, and by users for their own logging in an app.
* **Metrics**: Representation of data measures over intervals of time, for example, requests per second. Metrics are emitted using `EventCounter` and can be observed using the [dotnet-counters](/dotnet/core/diagnostics/dotnet-counters) command line tool or with [Application Insights](/azure/azure-monitor/app/eventcounters).
* **DiagnosticSource**: `DiagnosticsSource` is a mechanism for production-time logging with rich data payloads for consumption within the process. Unlike logging, which assumes data will leave the process and expects serializable data, `DiagnosticSource` works well with complex data.
```

> * **DiagnosticSource** - DiagnosticsSource is a mechanism for production-time logging for rich data payloads for consumption within the process. Unlike logging, which assumes data will leave the process and expects serializable data, DiagnosticSource works well with complex data.

Reviewer 2: DiagnosticsSource -> DiagnosticSource

## Logging

> Like most components in ASP.NET Core, Kestrel uses `Microsoft.Extensions.Logging` to emit log information. Kestrel employs the use of multiple [categories](xref:fundamentals/logging#log-category-1) which allows you to be selective on which logs you listen to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like most components in ASP.NET Core, Kestrel uses `Microsoft.Extensions.Logging` to emit log information. Kestrel employs the use of multiple [categories](xref:fundamentals/logging/index#log-category-1) which allows you to be selective on which logs you listen to.
```

Author: @Rick-Anderson  Does the anchor tag not work on xref links? I want to link to a section of the doc.

| Logging Category Name | Logging Events |
|--|--|

> | `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Server.Kestrel` |  ApplicationError, ConnectionHeadResponseBodyWrite, ApplicationNeverCompleted, RequestBodyStart, RequestBodyDone, RequestBodyNotEntirelyRead, RequestBodyDrainTimedOut, ResponseMinimumDataRateNotSatisfied, InvalidResponseHeaderRemoved, HeartbeatSlow |
> | `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Server.Kestrel.BadRequests` | ConnectionBadRequest, RequestProcessingError, RequestBodyMinimumDataRateNotSatisfied |
> | `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Server.Kestrel.Connections` | ConnectionAccepted, ConnectionStart, ConnectionStop, ConnectionPause, ConnectionResume, ConnectionKeepAlive, ConnectionRejected, ConnectionDisconnect, NotAllConnectionsClosedGracefully, NotAllConnectionsAborted, ApplicationAbortedConnection |
> | `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Server.Kestrel.Http2` | Http2ConnectionError, Http2ConnectionClosing, Http2ConnectionClosed, Http2StreamError, Http2StreamResetAbort, HPackDecodingError, HPackEncodingError, Http2FrameReceived, Http2FrameSending, Http2MaxConcurrentStreamsReached |
> | `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Server.Kestrel.Http3` | Http3ConnectionError, Http3ConnectionClosing, Http3ConnectionClosed, Http3StreamAbort, Http3FrameReceived, Http3FrameSending |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Server.Kestrel` |  `ApplicationError`, `ConnectionHeadResponseBodyWrite`, `ApplicationNeverCompleted`, `RequestBodyStart`, `RequestBodyDone`, `RequestBodyNotEntirelyRead`, `RequestBodyDrainTimedOut`, `ResponseMinimumDataRateNotSatisfied`, `InvalidResponseHeaderRemoved`, `HeartbeatSlow` |
| `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Server.Kestrel.BadRequests` | `ConnectionBadRequest`, `RequestProcessingError`, `RequestBodyMinimumDataRateNotSatisfied` |
| `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Server.Kestrel.Connections` | `ConnectionAccepted`, `ConnectionStart`, `ConnectionStop`, `ConnectionPause`, `ConnectionResume`, `ConnectionKeepAlive`, `ConnectionRejected`, `ConnectionDisconnect`, `NotAllConnectionsClosedGracefully`, `NotAllConnectionsAborted`, `ApplicationAbortedConnection` |
| `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Server.Kestrel.Http2` | `Http2ConnectionError`, `Http2ConnectionClosing`, `Http2ConnectionClosed`, `Http2StreamError`, `Http2StreamResetAbort`, `HPackDecodingError`, `HPackEncodingError`, `Http2FrameReceived`, `Http2FrameSending`, `Http2MaxConcurrentStreamsReached` |
| `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Server.Kestrel.Http3` | `Http3ConnectionError`, `Http3ConnectionClosing`, `Http3ConnectionClosed`, `Http3StreamAbort`, `Http3FrameReceived`, `Http3FrameSending` |
```

> ### Connection logging

Reviewer 3: Connection logging is already covered here:
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/servers/kestrel/endpoints?view=aspnetcore-5.0#connection-logging
Should one of them be removed or abbreviated and linked to the other?

Author: I'll remove this to link to the existing doc

> // TODO: WIP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- TODO: WIP -->
```

```csharp
using System.Diagnostics;
using System.Net;
var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);
builder.WebHost.ConfigureLogging(logging =>
    logging.AddFilter((category, level) =>
        category.Equals("Microsoft.AspNetCore.Server.Kestrel.Core.Internal.LoggingConnectionMiddleware") && level >= LogLevel.Trace));
builder.WebHost.ConfigureKestrel(o =>
{
    o.Listen(IPAddress.Loopback, 5000, listenOptions => listenOptions.UseConnectionLogging());
    o.Listen(IPAddress.Loopback, 5001, listenOptions =>
    {
        listenOptions.UseHttps();
        // For logging decrypted traffic
        listenOptions.UseConnectionLogging();
    });
});
var app = builder.Build();
app.MapGet("/", () => "Hello world");
app.Run();
```

## Metrics

Metrics is a representation of data measures over intervals of time, for example, requests per second. Metrics data allows observation of the state of an app at a high-level. Kestrel metrics are emitted using `EventCounter`.

> > Unfortunately, the `connections-per-second` and `tls-handshakes-per-second` counters are named incorrectly. Unlike, as implied by them the name, they do not always contain the number of new connections or TLS handshakes per second, but rather the number of new connection or TLS handshakes in the last update interval as requested as the consumer of Events via the `EventCounterIntervalSec` argument in the `filterPayload` to `KestrelEventSource`. It is **recommended** that consumers of these counters scale the metric value based on the `DisplayRateTimeScale` of one second.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> The `connections-per-second` and `tls-handshakes-per-second` counters are named incorrectly. The counters:
>  * Do ***not*** always contain the number of new connections or TLS handshakes per second
>  * Display the number of new connection or TLS handshakes in the last update interval as requested as the consumer of Events via the `EventCounterIntervalSec` argument in the `filterPayload` to `KestrelEventSource`.
>
> We **recommend** consumers of these counters scale the metric value based on the `DisplayRateTimeScale` of one second.
```

Author: Oh wow! That's a **LOT** easier to understand

| Name | Display Name | Description |
|--|--|--|
| `connections-per-second` | Connection Rate| The number of new incoming connections per update interval |

> | `total-connections` | Total Connection | The total number of connections |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `total-connections` | Total Connections | The total number of connections |
```

https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/main/src/Servers/Kestrel/Core/src/Internal/Infrastructure/KestrelEventSource.cs#L315

| `tls-handshakes-per-second` | TLS Handshake Rate | The number of new TLS handshakes per update interval |

> | `total-tls-handshakes` | Total TLS Handshake | The total number of TLS handshakes |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `total-tls-handshakes` | Total TLS Handshakes | The total number of TLS handshakes |
```

https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/980d7509f869edfa62d2f7aa551c3ff65c258258/src/Servers/Kestrel/Core/src/Internal/Infrastructure/KestrelEventSource.cs#L340

| `current-tls-handshakes` | Current TLS Handshakes | The number of TLS handshakes in process |
| `failed-tls-handshakes` | Failed TLS Handshakes| The total number of failed TLS handshakes |

> | `current-connections` | Current Connections | The total number of connections (including idle connections)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `current-connections` | Current Connections | The total number of connections, including idle connections
```

| `connection-queue-length` | Connection Queue Length | The total number connections queued to the thread pool. In a healthy system at steady state, this number should always be close to zero |
| `request-queue-length` | Request Queue Length | The total number requests queued to the thread pool. In a healthy system at steady state, this number should always be close to zero. This metric is unlike the IIS/Http.Sys request queue and cannot be compared  |
| `current-upgraded-requests` | Current Upgraded Requests (WebSockets) | The number of active WebSocket requests |

## DiagnosticSource

Kestrel emits a `DiagnosticSource` event for HTTP requests rejected at server layer such as malformed requests and protocols violations. As such, these requests never make it into the hosting layer of ASP.NET Core.

Kestrel emits these events with the `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Server.Kestrel.BadRequest` event name and an `IFeatureCollection` as the object payload. The underlying exception can be retrieved by accessing the `IBadRequestExceptionFeature` on the feature collection.

> Resolving these events is a two-step process. First, an observer for DiagnosticListener must be created:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resolving these events is a two-step process. An observer for `DiagnosticListener` must be created:
```

```csharp
class BadRequestEventListener : IObserver<KeyValuePair<string, object>>, IDisposable
{
    private readonly IDisposable _subscription;
    private readonly Action<IBadRequestExceptionFeature> _callback;

    public BadRequestEventListener(DiagnosticListener diagnosticListener, Action<IBadRequestExceptionFeature> callback)
    {
        _subscription = diagnosticListener.Subscribe(this!, IsEnabled);
        _callback = callback;
    }
    private static readonly Predicate<string> IsEnabled = (provider) => provider switch
    {
        "Microsoft.AspNetCore.Server.Kestrel.BadRequest" => true,
        _ => false
    };
    public void OnNext(KeyValuePair<string, object> pair)
    {
        if (pair.Value is IFeatureCollection featureCollection)
        {
            var badRequestFeature = featureCollection.Get<IBadRequestExceptionFeature>();

            if (badRequestFeature is not null)
            {
                _callback(badRequestFeature);
            }
        }
    }
    public void OnError(Exception error) { }
    public void OnCompleted() { }
    public virtual void Dispose() => _subscription.Dispose();
}
```

> Second, you need subscribe to the ASP.NET Core DiagnosticListener with your observer. In our example, we will be creating a callback that logs the underlying exception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subscribe to the ASP.NET Core `DiagnosticListener` with the observer. In this example, we create a callback that logs the underlying exception.
```
